[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam "Inspirations."
Would you like to know what
is in store for us for 2014?
Well, Susan Miller
is joining me,
and she's the
founder and editor of
the award-winning
astrologyzone.com, which
garners over six million
unique viewers a month.
And her new Astrology
Zone's Daily Horoscope app
has been listed as one of
the top five grossing apps
in the Apple App Store
for the past year.
Welcome.
[CHUCKLE]
>>SUSAN MILLER: Hello.
I'm so happy to be
here and to see you.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness gracious.
So tell me how long have
you been studying astrology?
>>MILLER: Well, when I was
little my mother had textbooks
around the house.
You know so when I was maybe
12 or 13, that's usually
an age when people want to
know more about themselves.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>MILLER: But then I
got very, very sick.
I had a birth defect from birth.
And the doctors didn't
know what it was.
And if they didn't
know what it was,
they assumed it was
either psychosomatic,
or I had made it up.
And they would actually be very
mean to me and very accusatory
to me.
But I would get an
attack once a year.
It would feel like something
thick like chocolate syrup
was falling in my knee,
and hip, and thigh.
And when I'd get an
attack, I couldn't
move an inch in the bed.
My mother would have to put
the sheets under me very, very,
very slowly because we
couldn't take any jarring,
and then pull out the one sheet,
and then put in the new sheet.
And it would take about an hour.
And--
>>LISA: How long
would that last?
>>MILLER: It would be
six to eight weeks.
And it was very
swollen, and no one
could see me because I lived
in a walk up in Manhattan.
And I was on the second floor.
I couldn't go to the family
table to have dinner.
I couldn't move from that bed.
I couldn't even get in
a different position.
I couldn't turn.
I couldn't do anything.
And the doctors are
saying I made it up.
And my mother knew that no
child is going to be that still.
As a matter of fact,
my little sister
would skip and, you
know, cause vibrations.
And we had to put up a sign,
walk slowly and quietly
near the bed.
>>LISA: And this started
around your teens?
>>MILLER: No, it started from
birth, but I couldn't talk.
And my mother, who is
an astrologer, or was--
I just lost her last year.
Mmm, it's so hard
to lose your mother.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MILLER: But she said
Susan, when you're 14,
this will go away.
I think maybe you'll outgrow it.
And I'm thinking mmm, this
is severe, whatever it is.
You know, but I loved her.
And if she said it would
go away, I'll go with that.
>>LISA: You wanted
to believe her.
>>MILLER: Yeah.
And I got such a bad attack
when I was 13 and 11 months.
We were waiting, and
it wasn't going away.
I got my attack in
January, January 28th.
>>LISA: And it would just
come on all of a sudden.
>>MILLER: All of
a sudden, I would
feel a volume of
liquid falling down.
And everything would
go like this inside me.
And I knew I was
having an attack.
So I couldn't travel very much.
I couldn't even go on
trips with my Girl Scout--
>>LISA: Or school.
>>MILLER: Troop, or, no.
And they wouldn't even
let me participate
in Mapo Day or any
of those things.
I had to sit on the side
with the delinquent children,
they would call it.
And this was terrible because I
felt like a little black sheep.
I went to the hospital
in an ambulance.
The first doctor we tried put me
in traction and made it worse.
It was the first
time I'd ever been
able to understand
why anyone would
want to commit
suicide from pain.
And this was the worst.
My father signed me out,
carried me out, brought me home.
And it was now February.
And my mother said you
have to try another doctor.
And I'm like no.
She said we have to.
You can't keep being out of
school six to eight weeks.
It would happen once a year,
sometimes twice, but very
rarely, and usually
on a holiday.
And she said what kind of--
like my birthday, or Christmas,
or Easter, or when I
was excited and happy.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>MILLER: Just being happy.
Well, the Chief of Staff of
the Hospital for Children's
Diseases, who treated
me kindly, and put me
in the hospital for
a week, and gently
studied me, and after a week,
said we can't figure this out.
We have to go in.
They went in, and
they couldn't get out.
I was bleeding internally
at the most horrific rate.
I had veins and arteries
that would turn completely
to tissue paper and disappear.
But because it was
happening in the leg,
the body would compress it.
If it were happening in
your stomach or your lungs,
nothing would stop it.
So all those people
lost their life.
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
>>MILLER: And they'd
never saw it in the leg.
And I was in the
hospital 11 months.
>>LISA: Oh my god.
>>MILLER: Well,
what they had to do
was paralyze me
from the knee down.
They put such strong
bands around me
that it would stop the bleeding.
And they had a conference right
in the operating room that day.
And I didn't find that
out until just recently.
And he named the
doctors, and I said
they're on the
names of buildings.
He said oh, yeah.
You had the best.
But we knew it was going
to damage the nerve,
but we didn't have
much of a choice.
You would either lose your
life or lose your leg.
And we had to do it.
So I woke up, and I
couldn't feel anything.
They put a little pin on you.
And he said don't worry.
We'll worry about that.
You're young, you're 14.
We'll do that after we get
done with just the blood
supply because they
had taken out so much,
it wasn't moving
properly through my body.
>>LISA: Was there
any reason why?
Was it a virus?
Was it--
>>MILLER: No, no.
I was born malformed.
>>LISA: Just-- OK.
>>MILLER: And I never
attended high school.
I did home study.
The board of ed has a
program for kids like this.
I mean, it isn't like
we had to figure it out.
But they can only send a
teacher for two hours a week,
one for Math and
one for English.
I said I don't need English.
I need the math.
Teaching yourself trigonometry
and things like that are hard.
So the board of ed
said that was OK.
I took my regions, my
PSATs, my SATs all at home.
And it's funny.
The teacher will say pencils up.
And I'm like I don't think we--
>>LISA: Who are you talking to?
>>MILLER: Yeah.
It's just me.
We can calm down a little.
She had the stop watch.
I mean, oh my gosh.
But somehow I got
through all that.
And then I went to NYU at 16.
See, I had skipped
the eighth grade.
So people always say
very obvious things
when you're in a crisis,
like oh, you had that year.
Well, I had worked really
hard to skip that year.
And I said no, I'm
going to save that year.
I am not going to not study.
I'm going to take my
tests and go to college.
So I entered college at
16 and graduated at 20.
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
All--
>>MILLER: And my
father said to me
when this health
nightmare is over,
you're going to need a job.
And I said you're right, Daddy.
You can say that again.
And he said well, why
don't you major in business
because you'll always work.
We have a very practical family.
And so I said OK.
And so that's what I did.
>>LISA: You have a
very incredible family.
>>MILLER: But it was very
hard to make friends.
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
>>MILLER: Because there
were all men in my class.
And no one would give
me their phone number.
So I thought well,
I'll run for office.
They'll have to at
least talk to me.
And I found the only job that
nobody wanted was Treasurer.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>MILLER: I'm like well,
I'm good with math.
So I'd stand in front of the
elevator with my platform.
Vote for me, vote
for me, vote for me.
And people would say oh,
that's a pretty good platform.
I'm like well, if you
have any ideas, tell me.
And I kept winning.
[CHUCKLING]
>>LISA: Oh, how funny.
>>MILLER: And when I graduated,
they picked seven students
as the Best for
Service in the school.
And I was one of them, The Hall
of Fame of Student Service,
but it was only
because I wouldn't
have had a friend
if I didn't do it.
It was that way.
>>LISA: So did your leg
heal, and were you able to--
>>MILLER: Yes, it's still weak.
It's still weak.
It's very hard for me
to wear high heels now,
where I used to be able to.
There's a bone under my in-step.
I said where did that come
from I said to the doctor.
He said well, that
bone belongs over here.
It should not be there.
And I have no idea
how you're walking.
I'm like I am fine.
He said everything
about you is different.
OK well I'm glad to
hear that, but we're not
going to operate on that leg.
>>LISA: So you have had
to go against all odds
to really make just things
happen that most people take
for granted every day.
>>MILLER: Just to
walk across the room
because after you've had
any kind of vascular,
they put you on a tilt table
to get used to being upright
because you've been laying.
>>LISA: Circulation?
>>MILLER: And then they
put you on parallel bars.
And then you're back in
surgery, so you're back
on the tilt table.
So just walking across the room
felt like going to Arizona.
And you have to depend on
people to give you things
that you-- and I had no
TV in my room and no phone
because the thinking was Susan
will get up on crutches--
and I had a brace up
to my hip-- and she'll
walk around the house.
But that didn't quite happen
because I was in a lot of pain.
So I read.
My mother went to the
library, and the librarian
would pick out classics
for me to read.
And I had no distractions.
And I never majored in English,
so I didn't know I could write.
I had no idea.
My heart led me.
But I was not going to tell
anyone I knew astrology.
Actually, my mother
refused to teach me.
>>LISA: You just did it for fun?
>>MILLER: Well, see,
I asked my mother
to teach me because I wanted
to know if I'd ever walk again.
That's a pretty
motivating reason.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLER: And she
wouldn't teach me.
And I said why?
You're an astrologer.
And she'd never have
people over at the house.
It was like she was a scholar
where she would constantly
read.
And she also did a
correspondence class
with this esteemed institute
that would correct her answers
and send back.
I have some of the
little books that she--
she did those way
before I was born.
>>LISA: And was she
doing that as a living
or to supplement income?
>>MILLER: No, no, no.
She was a governess,
like in "Downton Abbey,"
like a governess, like
the very wealthy families.
No, her sister made
her go into it.
When my mother moved away
from their little town
where they grew up--
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>MILLER: My mother said
I'm going to New York.
And my aunt said no, you can't.
And she said I'm going.
And she said, well, why don't
we take a class together
so we could talk on the
phone about our homework?
So my mother, being a Gemini,
said ah, that's a great idea.
What are we studying?
Astrology.
She said, you've
got to be kidding.
That doesn't work.
And she said you're good
with math, and I'm not.
My mother is, you know, the
German side of my family.
And my mother really
got that precision.
So my mother loved her sister,
and I wasn't even born yet.
She said OK, I'll do the charts.
And I'll show you
it doesn't work.
And that's a good point that w--
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>MILLER: Right at
that moment to say
that no astrologer believes
in astrology before they
study astrology.
>>LISA: Then why
do they study it?
>>MILLER: Nobody believes in it.
Well, somehow somebody gets--
>>LISA: Curious.
>>MILLER: You into it, or you
delve into it a little bit.
I think anyone who reads me
can see I'm very transparent.
Anything I say, you
can look up in a book.
I hopefully say
it in a poetic way
so that it's
entertaining while you're
reading, not dry
like an encyclopedia.
But anyway, my mother
refused to teach me.
And for about a year and
1/2, I kept begging her.
And then one day she came in
the living room with a magazine,
and she said did you
write to this magazine?
And I'm like, I did.
How do mothers
know these things?
I said, but they
never answered me.
That was seven months ago.
And she said somebody
with your birthday
and your leg problem
is in the latest issue.
I think it's you.
And I'm like what
did the lady say?
It was the Editor in Chief.
And she said well,
let's read it together.
I haven't read it yet.
And the editor
sounded very positive.
Now that's another good
point to think about.
There are no definites
in astrology.
You put together the
evidence you're finding.
Great family support,
great attitude--
>>LISA: I see.
>>MILLER: Esteemed doctor.
You know, I was
born with Jupiter
and the success of
health, which Jupiter
is the giver of gifts and luck
and the planet of miracles.
So that also is part
of the equation.
So my mother read
it to me, and I
said but there's some terms she
used that I don't understand.
And I need to know those
astrological terms.
She said why?
You have your answer.
And I looked at her.
And I'm like-- she said oh, no.
You're going to check
the Editor in Chief.
I'm like yes.
She said why didn't
you just ask me?
And I have the
most happy mother--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MILLER: On the planet.
There is no mountain too
high, no river too wide,
no ocean too deep to get across.
I mean, I said you
would never say
to me I could never walk again.
Even if it were
true, you would never
say that because there was
always a chance I would.
And she said that's true.
And she gave me a big
hug and she laughed.
And so she began
teaching me, but she
said you must
study for 12 years.
And you're only 15.
You don't even know what 12
years are because I'm now
15 and 1/2 by the
time she's relenting.
She says you're not to read
for anyone outside the family
until I tell you you're ready.
And we will talk
about astrology,
but we will also talk
about philosophy.
Why did these things happen?
We're going to talk
about the meaning of life
and different things
in a discussion.
And we're also going to
study clear communication
because if you say the wrong
thing, that's just terrible.
But if you say the right
thing the wrong way,
it's just as bad because
that person may never
meet another astrologer again
to get that straightened out.
>>LISA: So she was your teacher?
>>MILLER: Yes, and the other
side of my family is Italian.
And we lived in a brownstone
that was owned by the family.
And all seven sisters or
brothers lived in the building.
>>LISA: Oh, so you got
to read all day long.
>>MILLER: I had
plenty of people.
And it was like OK,
do me, you know?
And she would always be there
because I couldn't walk.
I was home.
>>LISA: You have gone,
I mean, against all odds
to create the most
magnificent situation.
I was looking at you-- 6 and 1/2
million unique viewers a month.
You don't just create
that overnight.
And--
>>MILLER: Well,
actually I was never
going to tell anyone
I knew astrology,
but when I was little,
when I was 9 or 10,
I said what will I
be when I grow up?
She said well, you're going
to write for a profession.
I'm like nobody in
our family writes.
And, you know, at
ten I said I don't
like writing these
essays in school what
I did over my Christmas
vacation or whatever.
She said I don't know
what you'll write about,
but we better work
on your grammar.
But then when you get a
little bit older, late '30s,
early '40s, you have
Aquarius on the mid-heaven.
I have Gemini rising, and
some newly-invented form
of communication-- so new,
we don't know the name of it
yet-- will change
the way you work
and be the channel in which you
make your ultimate contribution
to the world.
I will never forget
her saying that.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MILLER: And I'm like whoa.
How do you know it's
not invented yet?
Aquarius is what comes next.
Well, I drove her crazy.
She said look, my
generation was television.
And I believe you will be on TV.
And I've had a show with
Comcast for four years,
but there's other things
coming into the picture.
She said I think
it's something newer.
And because it's Aquarius,
and the symbol for Aquarius
is the little zigzags, the
little rickrack kind of thing,
she said it's an air sign.
So whatever it is, they're
little dots or lines
that go through the air,
but they're invisible.
>>LISA: So she taught
you western astrology?
>>MILLER: Oh, yes.
>>LISA: And that's a combination
of math and geometry.
>>MILLER: You're looking at--
yes, I'm doing geometry all day
long.
Just imagine a planet
is a little person.
They're walking down the street.
Not much happens alone.
You can do a lot
alone, but things
start happening when
you start talking
to another person, or three
people, or four people.
When there's an aspect,
that means a communication
within a certain amount of
degrees with another planet,
things start bubbling up.
They can be a
happy conversation,
it could be an
opportunity, or it
could be something
constricting where
you need to watch for
this because you may need
to fix something
when that comes up.
And I can see both.
>>LISA: How does that affect
us walking on this Earth?
>>MILLER: Oh, why
does astrology work?
We have no idea.
We don't know.
>>LISA: Well, planets,
communications, and aspects
happen up above in the
cosmos, and they affect us
on this planet?
>>MILLER: As above,
so, too, below
in a fractal relationship,
yes, on a smaller scale.
Yes.
>>LISA: And depending on
when you came in--now,
do you believe that when
you come into this planet,
and when you're born
you are printed,
you have a birth print of your--
>>MILLER: Your chart
will never change,
but you do have a progressed
chart, which we progress it
for every year
that you're alive.
But the natal chart
is everything.
And an astrologer needs a day,
month, year, time of birth,
and city of birth.
Now that's for a custom chart.
Once you know your
rising sign, you
must read for that sign
for the rest of your life,
along with your sun's sign.
And the sun sign is
really just putting
the sun on the
horizon line of Earth.
Your rising sign is what sign
was coming up in the East,
right on the eastern
horizon where
the sun comes up at dawn--
>>LISA: When you were born?
>>MILLER: When you were born.
People who are
born at dawn, have
the exact same rising sign.
>>LISA: Oh, I was
wondering about that.
OK.
>>MILLER: But
remember, dawn changes
in the winter versus the summer.
You know, it doesn't always
come up at the same time.
>>LISA: Is there any themes
that apply to all people, like,
as you said, people that are
born in the morning, people
that are born in the evening
tend to be certain ways?
>>MILLER: Oh, well, there
is something I've noticed.
>>LISA: M-hm.
>>MILLER: And there was
some theories about it.
But now I'm seeing it's true.
If you are born at night--
>>LISA: OK.
>>MILLER: Your moon takes
on special significance
because the moon
comes out at night.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MILLER: In
astrology, the moon is
your fine-tuning
to your character.
And the sun is what you see.
Now western astrology puts
tremendous emphasis on the sun.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MILLER: But vedic
astrology in India
puts more emphasis on the moon.
>>LISA: M-hm.
And that's what your inner--
>>MILLER: But you know,
my daughter is engaged.
And she's marrying Leo
Fitzpatrick, the actor.
And he's a Leo.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
I thought you were calling him
Leo because that was his sign.
>>MILLER: It's so funny
that one of my children
would be marrying someone with
the name of a sign, right?
>>LISA: That is great.
No accidents.
>>MILLER: It was
so cute on Twitter.
I tweet a lot on
@astrologyzone because there
are too many Susan Millers, so
my handle is @astrologyzone.
And I wrote, you
know, I'm so excited.
My daughter got
engagement, and I love him.
And somebody wrote
I looked him up.
Little Leo is a little Leo.
He is.
It was so funny.
They used my lexicon.
So anyway, I noticed
that she's a Pisces.
And usually, Pisces and Leo
might not be a perfect match.
But I always believe anybody
can get along with anyone else.
But she has the
moon in Aquarius,
and she has a lot
of Aquarian planets.
>>LISA: Uh-huh, and that
makes a difference--
>>MILLER: Aquarius
and Leo, perfect.
>>LISA: Mmm.
So that's why--
>>MILLER: I see that
these evening babies,
after the sun goes down--
if you are an evening baby,
find out the sign of your moon.
And just watch to see
the type of people
you seem to blend best with.
And it might be the moon
that is driving that.
And your moon is your emotions,
how you looked at your mother,
or your memories.
And Venus is emotion,
too, but the moon
is your memories, and your
psychological outlook,
and what your family gave you.
>>LISA: So when people
ask you to give a reading
or to do their chart,
what is it that they're
looking for the most?
Are they usually
looking for love?
>>MILLER: Oh, my number
one question right now
is something astrology
can't help them with.
I forgot to have a
baby, and I'm now 42.
If I had a dollar
for every woman who's
sat with a handkerchief
crying, and it's heartbreaking.
And the media is not helping.
Childbearing is for
when you're younger.
And the chance of
birth defects goes up.
And it goes up with the
mother and the father.
My father was 11 years
older than my mother.
My mother thinks
actually my birth defect
may have been caused by
the medicine they gave her
because she had terrible
nausea all the way through.
And she's afraid that there
was something in there
that they didn't
know about then.
>>LISA: Yes.
Yep.
>>MILLER: You know, we
keep finding out things.
>>LISA: M-hm, absolutely.
But you're such a
great example, though.
>>MILLER: I think
it was meant to be.
I've had 40 blood transfusions.
>>LISA: You're such
a great example
of how nothing can
get in your way.
>>MILLER: Well, you know, when
you have something like that,
you say to yourself
it's me or the leg.
Who's going to win?
And sometimes the leg does win.
I've broken my thigh
bone four times.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MILLER: And they would put
me in the hospital for eight
months because they
couldn't go in.
And on the third break,
I had broken it just
by stubbing my toe.
I said to them--
and Doctor Frankel
was back in that hospital.
He had gone away to
Seattle and Cincinnati.
And I said you're
here, and I'm here.
And I'm young enough, I
want the steel in the leg.
And he said you'll
bleed to death, Susan.
And I said I don't
want to live like this.
I can't go anywhere.
I could break my leg
in Bloomingdale's.
I can't live like this.
I had children.
And I had risked my life.
I had just signed my will.
And he did put the steel in.
I had 17 transfusions
that night.
I did die on the table.
He brought me back.
I didn't have any
of those mystical--
>>LISA: No-- no light?
You didn't--
>>MILLER: I had
post-operative stress
where I kept seeing meteorites
coming through my window.
But I noticed it was only-- like
if you and I were having lunch,
if there was a
window behind you--
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MILLER: I would see it only
if it was back lit behind you.
And--
>>LISA: And you don't think--
>>MILLER: This big
black thing coming.
And I think what
I was seeing was
the doctors with
the light over me
because you'd be in shadow
if there was a bright light,
you know, sun streaming in.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MILLER: And every once in a
while when I was in a situation
like that, it would come.
And I would burst into tears.
And the last one was when
I was being interviewed
by a journalist from India.
And you don't want
to burst into tears
when there's a reporter there.
And he was so sweet and so kind.
And I said you know what?
I don't think I'll ever
have another episode again
because the meteorites were
getting bigger, whatever
these black things coming at me.
And they would come
out of nowhere.
And I never had another
one after that one.
It was so gigantic.
I knew that that was it.
But I began noticing
it had to be
a back lit situation
for that to happen.
So I was remembering
something when I was asleep.
>>LISA: Well, you don't
think that has anything
to do with the fact that
you're an astrologer?
Or you're--
>>MILLER: No.
No, I don't think so.
I think it's more--
[CHUCKLING]
>>MILLER: I think
it's interesting
how the mind works when
you think it's not alert.
>>LISA: You're a
very analytic person.
>>MILLER: Oh, very.
>>LISA: Yeah.
I could see--
>>MILLER: Very.
>>LISA: There is a
correlation there.
All right.
Let's talk about,
if we can, 2014.
And, by the way, that's
just an amazing story.
Thank you for sharing it.
>>MILLER: Well,
all the things that
happen to you make
you different.
And I honestly think that
it's good to have something
different from everybody else.
We all want to be the same.
And there's a big
part of me that I
wish I had legs that
matched without all
the scars and everything.
But it's OK.
Things that make you
different give you
a new view of life,
a new perspective,
that maybe your
friend doesn't have,
but she'll have something else.
So we all have to
put it together.
But--
>>LISA: Well, you're an
inspiration to millions.
>>MILLER: I love--
>>LISA: Thank you.
>>MILLER: No, I can feel pain.
I can go in a room, and I talk
to someone just for a while,
I can tell if they're
feeling something.
>>LISA: M-hm.
>>MILLER: Oh, by the way, your
question about what people
ask for besides having children.
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>MILLER: I would like a job.
I'd like to change my job.
I'd like a new job.
The fact that people are
asking about romance now--
for like four years,
nobody asked about it.
>>LISA: Really?
>>MILLER: People just
wanted to pay the rent.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>MILLER: And I'm really--
and I do a lot of appearances.
And Bendal sent me around
the United States--
different companies.
Doing next week,
Lady Dior handbags--
different-- I come in-- you
know, and I meet people.
And they tell me things,
but now that they're
asking for love tells me that
they've got things covered,
and that they're feeling secure.
You cannot think about love
until the money's coming in--
>>LISA: Right.
>>MILLER: And that you
can sleep at night.
>>LISA: And that was coming
out of the recession,
and people were
very, very concerned.
>>MILLER: And I
think it's better.
>>LISA: And have
extreme hardship
when it comes to finances.
So we need to fix that, yeah.
>>MILLER: Well, we do
have a very unstable month
coming, April.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MILLER: It is not a month
to start a new business.
It's a month to sit and watch.
Open the window, and
see what flies in.
I always say that.
Look, some things you
can't control in life.
There are two eclipses.
And--
>>LISA: In the month of April?
>>MILLER: Yeah.
One is on April 15th.
The universe doesn't
know it's our tax day.
But only Pisces and Virgo will
have meditations about money.
Actually, everyone else will
have it in a different way.
Although, I think the United
States' economy may rock
a little.
>>LISA: At that time?
>>MILLER: Yeah, so if you
have a 401(k) that you've
been contributing
to, you just say
to your broker what
do you suggest?
I would like to be very stable.
I don't want to be in a
stock that is volatile.
Maybe I should be in mutual
funds, whatever it is.
He's going to tell
you because I can't.
But I would say go safe.
If you're out of
work, get something.
Get to high ground.
Get your foot in the door.
If you're an energetic person,
just pick an industry you love.
You're the one who's
going to be staying late.
Your boss is going to say
I can't lose this employee.
This girl is like amazing.
And she's always
giving me suggestions.
If you're a little
eager beaver, you're
going to go really far
because most people just
want to go home.
>>LISA: So April is a
rockier month in 2014?
>>MILLER: Yes, it's
the hardest month
of the year, April
15th and 29th.
>>LISA: Are you able
to predict anything
like a natural disaster?
>>MILLER: I don't like
to put it out there.
One is in Libra.
And so Aries is going
to have meditations
about relationships.
>>LISA: Meditations, when
you say it, what do you mean?
>>MILLER: Well, you
know, questions come up.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MILLER: If you
have an eclipse,
and you don't have a
bad relationship-- see,
eclipses, or even
full moons are just
little heat-seeking missiles
to see if there's a weak link.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>MILLER: If it
doesn't find anything,
you're going to say it was fine.
It really will show you,
like a little barking dog,
and pull you along, you
know, like Lassie used to do.
Like it's there to help you.
Yeah, and sometimes
eclipses draw health down
because it's exhausting.
You shouldn't have too much
on your calendar in April
because you're going to be
needed maybe to help someone.
Maybe your best
friend needs you.
>>LISA: Well, it's good to know.
And when you say you don't
like to put it out there
about natural disasters,
is it because you
don't want to weaken the
idea around it so that people
are susceptible?
>>MILLER: I don't want to
talk about terrorism or-- one
astrologer, I went
to a seminar, there
was a big convention
in Philadelphia--
said we're going to have
a worse situation than we
did in September 2008.
And that was the worst any
of us had ever experienced.
You're going to go to
an ATM, and there's not
going to be any money there.
I think he's overstating it.
Now he is a broker.
He's highly respected.
Everybody loves him.
>>LISA: M-hm.
>>MILLER: And I thought well,
I see it as a tough time.
But I don't think it's
going to be to that extreme
because hopefully we've
learned a few things from 2008.
Remember September 15th
when everything collapsed?
I doubt very much.
But if I were talking to Janet
Yellen, I'd say-- you know,
who's taking over
for Bernanke-- I
know you're trying to
move the needle slightly,
but maybe we should let it
go the first 1/2 of the year
because you can feel an eclipse
one month to the day later.
>>LISA: Do you consult with
a major political figure?
>>MILLER: No.
>>LISA: Not that you're
going to mention their names.
Or people in the
financial industry?
>>MILLER: See,
living in New York,
you have mostly business people.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MILLER: You don't have
so many movie stars.
Although, I know some of them.
But I don't do that much
one to one consulting
anymore because I'm writing
for "ELLE" America, "Vogue
Japan," "W Korea,"
"Tempo" in Turkey,
"Claudia" Brazil,
"S Mode" Spain--
>>LISA: How have you combined
fashion and astrology?
I read--
>>MILLER: Well, no.
I write.
No, no, I don't.
>>LISA: You write
for their magazine.
No, I saw that you had a great--
>>MILLER: I don't
write about fashion.
I write about your life.
>>LISA: But I loved what
I saw was in "ELLE."
And it was how you related the
My Horoscope to My Handbag,
and it was--
>>MILLER: Really?
>>LISA: Well, it was in
the article about you.
>>MILLER: What is
my editor doing?
Oh, my gosh.
No, there was a
special cover story
where I did do something
about fashion, but not
in my regular column.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MILLER: I just-- you know
because I take this seriously.
And I don't want them to
dilute it, but they wouldn't.
They're so nice up at "ELLE."
>>LISA: So now every year,
you do a Year Ahead calendar.
>>MILLER: It's my fun.
It's not enough to just work.
I have to do things.
And I have this
beautiful calendar.
And I want it to hang on
the wall and make you happy.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>MILLER: So I look
for rich color,
and this was all done
by Gloria Vanderbilt.
Look at this.
She's 90 and did such a romantic
picture of a man and a woman.
>>LISA: Aww.
>>MILLER: And we
license the material.
>>LISA: M-hm.
>>MILLER: And then I write
in the little squares
what the aspect is.
And this is for everyone.
I don't have 12 calendars.
That would be crazy.
>>LISA: OK, right.
>>MILLER: But what to
think about on that day
so that if someone says
do you want to come in
on Tuesday or Friday,
you take a look.
And you're going
to know which day.
>>LISA: So, for example, what
does a warning day look like?
What does it say?
>>MILLER: Well, on
April 15th, I said
it was a truly monster moon.
I mean--
>>LISA: Monster moon?
>>MILLER: Well, my readers know
that my monsters are the 15th.
I have an awful lot there.
But I can't-- see, it's so funny
how I take these things out
of my mind, but let's
look at July, July 24th--
>>LISA: OK.
>>MILLER: Which is the
luckiest day of the year,
and I want people
to know about that.
>>LISA: Really?
So do people call
you, and ask you
what day should I get married?
What day should I set contracts?
>>MILLER: All my friends.
And somebody will say
to me, like oh, I'm
getting married on this day?
Is this OK?
I'm like did you make
out the invitations yet,
and you bought the dress?
Oh, yes.
I'm like it's fine.
It's a good day.
How can I tell her she
picked the worse day of all?
And one bride said to me-- I
said you haven't, thank god,
haven't done the
invitations yet?
But Mercury's retrograde.
And that rules contracts.
And I really don't
want that date.
She said-- and things go wrong.
And she said oh,
I don't care if I
get blue napkins
instead of pink.
I said oh, you think
it's just for the day?
The day you get married is
the day you give birth--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>MILLER: To your relationship.
It's a serious thing.
And it's for the
rest of your life.
These aspects are going
to be with you forever.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Does the same go for
contracts and day
you start your first job?
>>MILLER: Yeah.
The birth of the venture.
My best friend came
to me so worried.
She said Craig will not
change the wedding date.
And it's Tuscany in October.
I said OK.
We have a little bit
of a problem here.
How about-- you have
to pick up the license?
I will pick a good
day in September,
and you go down to City Hall.
And you bring your sister,
or a couple of friends
to be witnesses, or
pick up somebody there.
And they'll sign the paper.
You never tell
your mom or father.
You never tell your family.
You never celebrate that day.
But astrologically,
that's your wedding day.
>>LISA: Interesting.
Well, why wouldn't you tell--
>>MILLER: Well, he
wouldn't move the wedding.
>>LISA: Oh, I see.
>>MILLER: And because he
loved her enough, he said OK.
I could do that.
>>LISA: That's a
good negotiation.
>>MILLER: It's a legal
beginning to the wedding.
And that, to us, is
the important day.
>>LISA: So it's like a--
>>MILLER: And she had a
regular wedding in Tuscany.
And it turned out great.
And her marriage is wonderful.
Everything is good.
>>LISA: That's what
I was waiting for.
I was waiting to hear that part.
And the same thing would go for
if you were planning a-- what
about C-sections when
people schedule those?
>>MILLER: I had that
with my second child,
but a baby comes when
it wants to be born.
>>LISA: Does it?
>>MILLER: And--
>>LISA: Even when
you schedule them?
>>MILLER: Well, I was
scheduled for April 19th, which
I did give birth
to Diana that day.
But they wanted
me in the morning.
And they say come
to the hospital.
You haven't had any water.
You haven't had any food.
So I get there at 6 AM.
And there are no
operating rooms.
There is nothing.
The whole day I'm like
please give me a drip.
Give me something.
I'm so dry.
Finally at 8:01, she
was born at night.
>>LISA: Huh.
>>MILLER: And I was worried
because she wasn't quite going
to fit in with the family.
She was a surprise, but
I wanted her so badly.
>>LISA: M-hm.
>>MILLER: And I was
willing to make out
my will and everything.
But she had the perfect rising
sign to fit into the family.
And, you know, I'm Catholic.
And when I was in
Catechism, they
teach you about your religion.
I remember once we were
sitting in a little circle
with the nun.
And the nuns said
God omnipotent.
And he knows what you're
going to do before you do it.
I'm go oh.
I'm like does it mean it
doesn't matter when-- oh, no.
It matters.
You have to try to
do the right thing.
So I'm listening so intently.
Now the bell rings.
The kids are allowed
to go out and play.
And I'm tugging at her.
She said don't you want
to go out and play?
No!
Can we go over that again?
And I never really
understood the concept
until I had Diana
because God knew
I'd be a great mother
to both my children
and gave me the right children.
We're so close.
And--
>>LISA: That's beautiful.
>>MILLER: So pregnant
women shouldn't
be worried that they're
having the wrong baby.
And also, don't worry if you're
marrying the wrong person.
There's something
drew you together.
And the rising sun is important.
You have eight planets
plus the sun and moon.
Did you know that
your chart will never
be replicated ever
in time and space?
Not in history,
not in the future.
>>LISA: No one ever?
>>MILLER: You have a
completely unique chart
because the planets move
at such different speeds.
Even twins have
different charts.
And sometimes--
>>LISA: Really?
>>MILLER: The cusps move because
they're a minute or two apart.
And it matters.
Astrology is so
excruciatingly detailed.
And then I read that
we're made of stardust.
This is just wonderful.
So people should be happy.
And if you have a baby
with Mercury retrograde,
those babies--
>>LISA: I was going
to ask you about that.
Let's talk a little
bit about that.
>>MILLER: Well, I'm born with
Mercury retrograde, but--
>>LISA: Wow.
And you're a communicator.
>>MILLER: Yeah.
It doesn't hurt me at all.
It makes you more
philosophical because Mercury
makes you think back.
And no, it's always
good to be born.
Yes.
>>LISA: So what is
Mercury retrograde?
Can you dispel that myth at all?
>>MILLER: Well, no.
No, well it's not a myth.
Mercury is a very
articulate planet.
Think of him as
little Hermes, OK?
He sits up in the cave.
And he tells his
mother I'm not going
to live in this horrible cave.
I'm going to be on Mount Olympus
with my brothers and sisters
because Mercury does
rule siblings, too.
It's like how come
they're on Mount Olympus,
and we're in this
dingy, horrible cave?
And it's cold.
She said I had an
affair with Zeus.
You must be quiet.
You cannot tell anybody.
And this is our lot in life.
Oh, no.
This baby talks
the day he's born.
Well, of course, Gemini and
Virgo is very articulate.
And this planet rules
these two signs.
He goes and steals
Apollo's cattle.
And he makes them walk
backwards-- Mercury
retrograde-- makes them work
backwards so that Apollo can't
figure out where the cattle is.
And he sees a farmer there.
And he says oh,
you saw this, huh?
Here's some money, and you're
not going to say a word.
So he said OK, I'm good.
>>LISA: Communication.
>>MILLER: The next day,
Mercury comes back,
sees the farmer walking
around, but he changes his--
because Mercury is mercurial--
the temperature, you know?
And he looks different.
He said did you see a
child take some cattle?
Oh, yes.
They went that way.
I can't trust this guy.
So he turns him to stone.
So now Apollo is
missing his cattle
and starting to put two and two
together, goes into the cave,
and brings his beautiful
light, the sun,
the light of
illumination, of truth.
His mother's there.
And the baby sees him coming,
goes back in the bassinet.
And Apollo says I
know you're awake.
I know you took my cattle.
So the baby comes up and
starts arguing with him.
Well, what did you
expect me to do?
And Apollo can't
believe this child.
He said I don't know
what to do with you.
I'm going to pick you up
and bring you to Zeus.
He'll know what to do.
Here, come with me.
We're going to Mount Olympus.
So Hermes is happy.
>>LISA: You're such
a great story-teller.
>>MILLER: Well,
he goes up there.
And he's on the lap of Zeus.
And Zeus says gosh, this
child even looks like me.
And he's so smart.
See, Mercury is the
brain function, thinking,
communication,
articulation, negotiation.
So all the planets have
different territory.
Pluto could only go underground.
Everybody had a place where
they're allowed to travel,
except Mercury.
He said I'm going to let you
travel wherever you want,
Heaven, Earth, and Hades.
You can go anywhere you want.
And it's the only
planet that has that.
That's why it's considered
the travel sign.
He said you're going
to be my agent.
You're going to be near me.
And you're going
to speak for me.
And every time Mercury
goes more than 27
and 1/2 degrees away from
the sun, he yanks him back.
>>LISA: Oh, so
that's what it means.
>>MILLER: 27 and 1/2 degrees.
He said where are you going?
The deal is you have
to stay with me.
And he got to live
on Mount Olympus.
>>LISA: That's the story
of Mercury and retrograde.
I have never heard that before.
>>MILLER: So they're
also very clever.
So Mercury Retrograde, you
don't want to sign a contract.
>>LISA: Because of
the communication?
>>MILLER: Because
you'll have to redo it.
You're not thinking.
See, also, I have found that
when Mercury is retrograde,
the wind is changing direction,
but you can't see it yet.
And you look at the
landscape of your life.
And you're like everything's
the same, it's fine.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MILLER: But you're not
taking into account things that
are coming in.
>>LISA: OK.
>>MILLER: And you make
bad judgment calls.
My own daughter, little
Diana bought a computer
with Mercury Retrograde.
You're never to buy electronics.
And she said Mommy, the
computer you bought me
for Christmas, the Apple, I have
to sell it on eBay because it's
not suitable for my needs.
It won't hold my music
files big enough.
And she is in the
music business.
I said when did you
buy the computer?
When Mercury was retrograde.
I'm like Diana!
>>LISA: Your own daughter.
>>MILLER: Those
little areas, they're
always pushing the envelope.
>>LISA: So now apparently
you write about 45,000 words
a month?
>>MILLER: Yeah, 48,000.
Some months only 36,000
if there's a lot going on.
>>LISA: You do a lot of writing,
but you're incredibly accurate.
>>MILLER: No one can talk to
me when I'm in production.
The last 10 days of
the month, my friends
know they can't call.
I can't see them.
I don't have dental
appointments.
Nothing.
>>LISA: You have such an
amazing passion for it.
And you just--
>>MILLER: Love it.
>>LISA: And I also
understand that you were just
voted as one of the
members of the Academy.
>>MILLER: Oh.
[CHUCKLING]
>>LISA: As a voting
member of the Academy.
>>MILLER: Well, it's
because I said in Hollywood
that I love television.
It's the Emmy's.
I'm an Emmy judge.
But I don't think that's
supposed to get out there,
but--
>>LISA: Well, it's still--
>>MILLER: But it's a
very serious thing.
And I said I love television.
And so I was invited
to have an application.
And I'm very serious about it.
They send you discs, CDs.
But you don't have to watch
every-- you pick a category.
I like drama, which of
course is the most work.
And I watch everything twice,
which you don't really have to.
And you fill it
out like the SAT.
It's so funny.
I like this one show called
"So You Think You Can Dance."
And then you vote on the phone.
I watched that show twice.
I want to be sure that i
picked the right person.
But remember, I'm
writing at the same time,
and I'm keeping an eye on it.
So if I watch it twice then
I've seen the whole thing.
I'm like that particular
routine was special.
I want to actually
look at it now.
>>LISA: Let me just ask you.
Has technology changed the
way that you do astrology?
>>MILLER: Everything,
everything.
Well, no.
I don't think I could've
written this much
if there were no
computers, for example,
or if there were no laptops.
But social media changed a lot
because I can get feedback.
Somebody once said to me you
first had the "Gutenberg Bible"
so you could read.
Then you had radio.
You could hear.
Then you had television.
You could read, see, and hear.
But then you had the Internet.
And you could respond.
And it closed the box.
And that response
area is so important.
I may not imagine all
the ways an aspect could
assert itself and manifest
in people's lives.
But if I get enough
feedback, I can.
And it was really funny.
Some media expert
said you're answering
so many people on Twitter.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>MILLER: And I love Twitter.
Twitter is my favorite.
>>LISA: Because
it's fast or what?
>>MILLER: It's fast.
And you don't get
long questions.
>>LISA: Right.
>>MILLER: I'm on
Facebook as Susan Miller.
But on Twitter,
I'm astrologyzone.
And I'll say please tell me
how this eclipse affected you.
And tell me your birthday.
Not your year, but
tell me I'm April 15th,
and this is what happened.
And they'll ask me questions.
And that really
changed everything.
All that feedback,
I feel they're
making me better, the readers.
>>LISA: Absolutely because you
get the response to understand
if you're accurate, or where--
>>MILLER: Yeah, well,
it was so funny.
The expert told me don't
answer all these questions.
Just do broadcasts.
And say I'm going to be here
for an hour and broadcast.
I said that's-- I don't
like to do anything--
>>LISA: But you said a part--
that what you'd been taught
by your mother was
the philosophy--
>>MILLER: Yeah.
And I like to have an exchange.
And I don't like to
just broadcast out.
And someone said
to me wow, you'll
answer a question with
somebody with no followers?
I said sure, I don't
check how many followers.
That person may have gone on
Twitter just to ask me that.
So it has to be genuine.
And it has to be me.
I will not let
anybody tweet for me.
>>LISA: Do you
have any challenges
in what you do as an astrologer?
>>MILLER: Oh.
What do you mean?
That's an interesting question.
Well, writing all that down.
And some months,
you have a fever.
And some months--
you know, you have
things happen in your life.
I was talking about
this at lunch today.
For some reason, when your
body is crying for sleep--
it's now 3 o'clock
in the morning.
I'm lucky in that I only
sleep five hours a night.
And I wake up without an alarm.
And I wake up like
right out of a toaster.
And I never need coffee.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>MILLER: It's like incredible.
I like the taste
of coffee, so I'll
have a mild cup once in a while.
But I don't need it.
It's those times when you are so
tired that you write the best.
And you're like oh gosh,
I can't go to sleep.
It's all coming.
There's so many
times when you're
writing that it's coming
out of your fingers.
And you're reading
it, and you're
like what else is
it going to say?
And I remember when I
was writing my book,
I was sitting in a cafe.
And this woman was
sitting next to me.
She had her glasses on.
She had her book.
She had her coffee.
She's working away.
She probably was a graduate
student or something.
And I'm re-reading Taurus a
hundred times from my book.
And, you know, before you
send it to your editor.
And finally, I went send.
Right before I did that,
I said who wrote this?
God wrote this.
I can't take credit for this.
This is good, and I have no
idea how this turned out.
She turned to me.
She said whoa, what
are you writing?
I'm like oh, you heard that?
Oh, my God.
>>LISA: That's funny.
>>MILLER: I said
I'm an astrologer,
and I'm writing a book.
I have this website.
And she goes-- takes
her glasses off--
she says you're Susan Miller,
and she starts screaming.
And I'm like--
>>LISA: Oh, how funny.
>>MILLER: And I said well,
you're giving me courage.
For some reason, writing a
book, it's out there so long,
you're more tense about it.
And you want it thorough.
When I get tense, a
little secret about me
is I write extra long.
>>LISA: Oh, no wonder.
>>MILLER: Because I'm afraid
I'll overlook something.
The more pressured I
am, the longer it goes,
but yet it holds
together very nicely.
And I do have an
editor to make sure.
When Sherry writes
to me and says
I don't understand
this-- you know,
you didn't flush it out enough.
I don't argue with her.
She is the voice of the reader.
I'm like oh, I thought
that was clear.
OK.
Let me have another go at it.
Wait a minute.
>>LISA: So you get it--
you are magnificent.
And I'm so grateful to have
the opportunity to sit with you
and hear your story.
And it's so clear why
you are successful.
>>MILLER: Oh, I just love it.
I feel like I am the
servant to my readers.
I'm thrillingly and happily--
>>LISA: Because you do it from
a place of passion, and purpose,
and beyond against all
odds, and you're incredible.
>>MILLER: And it came to me.
Time Warner said write
down what you tell us
because, at some point, I
was done with my studies
with my mom.
And my mother said you can.
And I would read for friends.
But I was an agent for
commercial photographers.
I was dealing with
creative people.
Creative people, even if they're
accountants, they're creative.
They want to know what
else can I do for my life?
How can I push the boundaries?
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
Moving forward.
Yes, absolutely.
And that's how you
got into the public?
>>MILLER: And that's
where Time Warner said
we will put you on
our website if you--
and when they said
website, I knew
it was what my
mother had predicted.
>>LISA: Ah.
>>MILLER: The Internet
was that mysterious thing
that was coming.
>>LISA: M-hm.
>>MILLER: And they
wanted something short
for women every day.
And I wanted something
very long and comprehensive
for men and women once a month.
And they said that flies
in the face of web wisdom.
It should be short and daily.
I'm like no, no, no.
You must trust me on this.
And they did.
>>LISA: They did.
Well, thank you so much.
I'm so grateful to sit down
with you for this time.
>>MILLER: I'm so
grateful to be with you.
Thank you, Lisa.
>>LISA: Susan Miller, amazing.
If you'd like to watch
the replay of my interview
with Susan Miller, you
can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]